a spoonful of sugar but have you ever
wondered how they make white sugar so
sparkling white do they use bleach is
there something in the way that it's
made that I should worry about to try
and make white sugar in the barn would
just be too complicated so to find out
more I'll hit the road
[Music]
now not many people know that over half
our sugar comes from this root vegetable
the homegrown sugar beet but it only
contains 17% sugar so how do we get from
this to this and get rid of all the
other bits we don't need well this is
how with a giant chemistry set
[Music]
we don't grate sugar beet onto a corn
plate it's not very sweet hello Bob hi
Jimmy hey do it now Bob is it quite a
simple process can I do it back home in
the barn
very unlikely
British sugars Bob how since this
process is so precise I couldn't do it
in the barn
he doesn't make sugar by simply chopping
up the beat can I taste one
a little bit gritty and some sweetness
never done a lot to refine our own sugar
we'd have to stood a beaten hot water
first
like making tea but we still wouldn't
have sugar it's still a long way from
those white crystals we buy in the
supermarket if you look at it it's this
yellow cloudy substance the cloudy
yellow juice is full of bit from the
feet
we don't want on our cornflakes they use
some clever chemistry to remove them so
how'd you get them sugar out of this
solution now first of all I've got to
remove all of the impurity is that with
some sort of filter come on
sorry Bob I think it must have been off
that day extracting sugar from beet uses
a lot of science and here's the
surprising bit they use carbon dioxide
gas and solution of the mineral lime to
clean it and facilitate calcium
carbonate and you'll know this is sure
the lime and the carbon dioxide fog adds
join together to make chalk as the chalk
forms it traps the impurities when the
chalk is filtered out the sugar juice is
much purer see you never know what you
might miss would you skip school sure it
started to settle Jimmy that's selling
quite rapidly as well but you're left
with the clear solution at the top it's
not that clear I still wouldn't put that
in my cup of tea
to turn this into sugar crystals they
boil reduce to evaporate some of the
water this leaves behind a thick syrup
of sugar if you get the temperature
exactly right and spin it in a
centrifuge something magical happens the
silver for the juice is Sun separate
from the crystal and you'll be left with
pure white sugar
now look at the church go up
Changez
[Music]
the fact now without their problems
the sugar beet has been washed chopped
steep filtered boiled and spun just to
get at that 70% that we can use all we
need to now is bag it up and get it in
the shops
you